Ibexa Notifications (#3090)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/api/notification_channels.md

* [`desktop`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#desktop-channel) - Notification forwarded to desktop applications like JoliNotif
* [`email`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#email-channel) - Notification forwarded to email addresses
* `ibexa` - Notification forwarded as [back office user notifications](notifications.md#user-notifications)
* [`push`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#push-channel) - Notification forwarded to specific applications
* [`sms`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/notifier.html#sms-channel) - Notification forwarded to phone numbers

### Subscriptions configuration

You can find the default configuration in `config/packages/ibexa.yaml` and `config/packages/ibexa_admin_ui.yaml`.
You can modify it to define your own subscriptions.
This page contains several examples of subscriptions configuration.

!!! caution "Scopes may not merge as expected"

    Subscriptions defined for a scope may not merge with subscriptions from other scopes or from other files.
    For example, `default` scope might not be merged within a siteaccess group scope.

>     To ensure you don't unsubscribe against your will,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To ensure you don't unsubscribe channels by mistake,
```

    php bin/console ibexa:debug:config notifications.subscriptions --siteaccess=<siteaccess>
    ```

#### Subscription example

The following example shows how you can deliver notifications about Commerce-related activities through Slack:

1. Install the Slack Notifier package:

```bash
composer require symfony/slack-notifier
```

2. In a .env file, [set the DSN to target a Slack channel or a Slack user](https://github.com/symfony/slack-notifier?tab=readme-ov-file#dsn-example):

```dotenv
SLACK_DSN=slack://xoxb-token@default?channel=ibexa-notifications
```

3. Subscribe to notification types related to Commerce, such as order, payment, and shipment status changes.
For example, define the following configuration in a new `config/packages/notifications.yaml` file:

``` yaml hl_lines="12-20"
[[= include_code('code_samples/api/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 1, 20) =]]
```

## Create a notification class

You can define a new notification type and assign a new set of channels to it, customizing how it's delivered.
It must extend the `Symfony\Component\Notifier\Notification\Notification` class
and can optionally implement interfaces required by specific channels.

> - Some channels don't accept the notification if it doesn't implement their related notification interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Some channels don't accept the notification if it doesn't implement their specific notification interface.
```
For consistency with the table column

>   Those interfaces come with a method to specifically format the notification for the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These interfaces come with a method to specifically format the notification for the channel.
```

> - Some channels accept every notification and have a default formatting if the notification doesn't implement their related notification interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Some channels accept every notification and have a default formatting if the notification doesn't implement their specific notification interface.
```

> | Channel   | Specific notification interface                                                                                                                                                                                         | Accept any notification |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Channel   | Specific notification interface                                                                                                                                                                                         | Accepts any notification object|
```

- In the `admin_group` scope with the `browser` channel
- For Commerce edition, in the `storefront_group` scope with the `browser` channel

``` yaml hl_lines="13-15 43-45"
[[= include_code('code_samples/api/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 5, 6) =]]
        # …
[[= include_code('code_samples/api/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 26, 34) =]]
[[= include_code('code_samples/api/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 36, 65) =]]
[[= include_code('code_samples/api/notifications/config/packages/notifications.yaml', 67) =]]
```

!!! note "Subscriptions for `storefront_group`"

    Note that when introducing subscriptions configuration for the `storefront_group` scope that comes with Commerce edition,
    several subscriptions had to be copy-pasted into this SiteAccess group to have the same subscriptions as before
    when it was configured only by the `default` scope.
    For example, the subscriptions for the `site` SiteAccess belonging to this group
    can be checked with the following command during configuration:
    ```bash
    php bin/console ibexa:debug:config notifications.subscriptions --siteaccess=site
    ```

> Reaching this controller in the back office (at `/admin/notification-sender`) triggers the notification as a flash message in the bottom-right corner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visiting this controller's route in the back office (at `/admin/notification-sender`) triggers the notification as a flash message in the bottom-right corner:
```

![Notification in back office](notification-browser-admin.png "Controller message displayed as a flash message in the browser")

> Reaching the controller in the default SiteAccess on Commerce edition (at `/notification-sender`) also triggers the notification as a flash message in the bottom-right corner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visiting the controller's route in the default SiteAccess on Commerce edition (at `/notification-sender`) also triggers the notification as a flash message in the bottom-right corner:
```
